WELCOME BACK IN THIS is where things get more interesting because we're going to be looking at variables.
So variables give us the ability to store data and recall it later.
So earlier we saw how we created a bunch of strings.
And every time we watch a recall of the string we had to go back and type it again.
So this is very useful especially in programming because we want this dynamic ability in order to store
data to manipulate that data and then recall it often within our programming.
So this is what variables do and variables are one of the fundamentals of every programming language
you need to be able to store that data and variables give us that container in order to store that data.
So just like with algebra and where you're storing some type of value and let's say x is equal to something
you do the same thing for variables you use.
Are in order to declare the variable so that the syntax so that the system actually knows that you're
actually declaring X as a variable.
So all you have to do is place V-A are in front of the variable that you want to declare and then assign
x value.
And we're going to use the assignment operator so this is just an equal sign.
And then whatever here is here on the right hand side is going to be the value of x.
So let's give X a value of 5 and we see that we get a response back because we're not looking for a
response quite yet.
But now the interesting thing is when I type an X I get a value of five associated with it and that
gets returned.
And you're probably also wondering well where are the data types fit in.
Because with javascript you don't actually have to define the data type.
So we've got what's known as dynamic typing.
And basically what this means is that if we've got a variable that's being declared as a number then
that variable is actually going to be a number variable.
And if we have it being declared as a string then why is going to be a string value.
So we can also even switch between values.
So once we've declared x we don't have to specify the R anymore whenever we want to reassign a value
to it.
And this happens very often as you're programming.
You want the numbers to change the stored values to change.
And this is where programming really gets a lot of power.
So if I want to take X and for instance now I want X to be 10 I can recall X and X holds the value of
10 and I could just as easily switch it into a string.
So if I didn't want the numeric 10 and if I wanted character 10 then I can switch the data type.
And javascript is fine with that.
There's no problem with doing switching the different data types depending on what the variable is.
And of course if you've got that within your program and you want to make sure that you're not switching
it if your program always wants X to be Tamm.
So this is something you've got to establish once you're creating your program but it is acceptable
within javascript to switch between the different types.
Now there are a few rules when you're creating variables and some of those rules I've got listed out
here so it is case sensitive.
So if I do an uppercase x we get this.
X is not defined because we haven't initially defined and declared x at any point where the uppercase
x.
So if I do something like var X and now I type in the upper case X I've got that one and I've got the
lower case X and I can even assign a value to the Upper Case 1 so I wanted 10 for uppercase and the
written 10 for a lower case i can do that as well.
So I just as easily I just make sure that when you are naming your variables they are case sensitive
so watch for that.
There's also some rules as to what the variable can be.
So you can't call it variable and views are reserved words such as alert.
So that's not going to work out.
Another thing that you need to avoid as well is starting with a number because if you have a variable
and you want to call it for.
Notice that with javascript or should equal it to four.
We see that with javascript.
The numbers we don't need to code around them.
So this is where we need to be mindful of the fact that javascript wouldn't know what for this is supposed
to be if it's a variable for we can't if we're just recalling the number four.
So make sure that you're not starting with a number.
You can have something like variable x for if you want it to.
So you can include those digits in there so we can equal that to four.
And this is flying javascript's fine with this as well.
You can also start variables with an underscore so we can name it underscore X and we'll just give it
a value of 5 and we see that that's fine as well.
We can also start a declaration or the variable name with a dollar sign.
So this is often used as well where we've got the dollar sign and we've got that characters so we've
got dollar sign X and it's that's the variable name.
So you do have quite a bit of flexibility with names.
Another thing to keep in mind whenever you're naming your variables typically we do use camel case.
So basically what that means is if you've got a number of words such as my value we start the second
word with an upper case and if we have another one my value name or something like that again we start
that one with uppercase because you can't have spaces for your variable name.
So if you have my value that's not going to work and we see that already.
Chrome turns that black because it's not understanding that this is one name since we place that space
in there.
So avoid spaces as well and you're fine as well to make them really long if you want to be also mindful
of the fact when you're recalling them.
If you've got a really long character set that's defining the variable name then this could be a problem
as well.
And that's just simply from a useful perspective that you don't want to have something that's really
one.
So again we're just going to declare this one as five.
And if you want to call that recall back we can recall that I can get the value returned back and the
scope of the variables is going to be global of it globally available.
And this is going to become even more evident why we're calling them global variables.
When we come to functions and we start looking at local variables within functions so global variables
basically mean that we can access this within functions as well and make use of the values that we're
setting that we're declaring as var my value and we can pick that up within a function.
So what I want you to do now is practice declaring variables.
So this is really easy to do.
Be creative.
Start out try out some different names for variables.
Keep them camel case.
Make sure that you are case sensitive that you are aware that that case matters for the variable names
and also make sure that you know starting with letters dollar with digits and that you're keeping two
letters underscore and dollar sign and that you're not including any spaces in the name.
And try it for yourself.
So open up your browser console and try creating some variables and then recalling those values and
then even try to overwrite those values with something new and then recalling those back as well.
So.
Re-establish a value for it and you can recall it.
So try to have something like variable one and he will add to one variable to equal it to 2 and so on
and just get yourself really comfortable with writing variables and familiar with the different rules
associated with variables and then the next lesson.
I'm going to show you even more with what we can do with variables.
And it's really important to be comfortable with creating variables because these are going to be the
very basic starting point for any application where you need to hold data and you need to hold values
within those variables.